---
layout: default
title: Overview
permalink: /overview/
---

# Compression Challenge on 3D Microscopy Images

## Welcome 

How does the brain enable complex behaviors like learning and decision-making? How do networks of neurons process information to give rise to perception and action? These are core open questions in neuroscience that the Allen Institute for Neural Dynamics is working to answer. A key step toward addressing these questions is mapping the brain's circuits -- identifying which neurons are connected and the types of connections they form. 

Recent breakthroughs in light sheet microscopy, such as the [ExaSPIM](https://alleninstitute.org/news/scientific-overview-exa-spim/) developed at the Allen Institute for Neural Dynamics, enables researchers to image whole, intact mouse brains at single-cell resolution. This technology allows scientists to reconstruct the wiring diagram of neurons across the entire mouse brain at an unprecedented scale. 

These breakthroughs come with a challenge: imaging each brain generates terabytes of data (~20TB/brain), and mapping complete circuits requires imaging multiple brains. The size of these datasets creates significant barriers to data accessibility. 

## Task 

In this competition, you'll develop cutting-edge compression algorithms for 3D microscopy images, reducing the size of the data while preserving the image quality needed for downstream analysis, such as identifying and tracing neurons in 3D. Your work will help researchers handle the large datasets generated by modern microscopy, accelerating progress in neuroscience and beyond. 

## Join the Challenge 

(include link to codabench) 